=======================
Spectrum Contour Levels
=======================


.. |pulldown| image:: ../images/pulldown.png
   :align: bottom


.. |check| image:: ../images/check.png
   :align: bottom


.. |radio| image:: ../images/radio.png
   :align: bottom


.. |float| image:: ../images/float.png
   :align: bottom


.. |int| image:: ../images/int.png
   :align: bottom


.. |entry| image:: ../images/entry.png
   :align: bottom


.. |button| image:: ../images/button.png
   :align: bottom


.. |ramp| image:: ../images/ramp.png
   :align: bottom


.. |selector| image:: ../images/selector.png
   :align: bottom


**Change Levels in Spectrum Contour Displays**

This popup window is used to specify which contour levels (lines of constant
intensity) are drawn for spectra within the spectrum windows of Analysis. A
spectrum can have both positive and negative levels, and the user can set
these on an individual basis or as a regular incremental (usually geometric)
series. It should be noted that spectrum contour colours, which may be
different for positive and negative levels, is set elsewhere, in the main
Spectra_ table.

In normal operation the user first selects the spectrum to change the contours
for in the upper left pulldown menu. Although contour levels are specified
for individual spectra, if there are several spectra that share the same
levels (for example if they form a series of some kind) then the user may
spread the contour level information from one to many via the [Propagate
Contours] function within the "Display Options" of the main Spectra_ table.
The user may also affect the contour levels of multiple spectra by changing
the "Global scale" settings. This global scale will affect *all spectra* in
the project; the scale value multiplies all of the contour levels for all
spectra, although in practice it is rarely changed. Using a global scale gives
the advantage of being able to specify smaller numbers for the levels.

The individual contour levels for a spectrum are listed in the "positive
levels" and "Negative levels" fields. They are multiplied by the global scale
factor when they are used for spectrum display. The user may type in values
for the levels directly into these field, or they can be filled using the
"Auto contour levels" mechanism. If manual levels are specified the user
should press [Apply manual Levels] when done to commit the changes and see the
results. The [Apply Auto Levels] function differs in that it always applies a
regular series of levels, according to the settings, and these will overwrite
any manual specifications when committed; the actual levels applied are always
displayed in the levels field.

The setting of "Auto" levels using a series involves choosing a base level,
which represents the first contour (closest to zero). This base level is
usually set according to the level of noise in the spectrum. Typically it is a
value just above most of the noise, so the noise is not seen, but it may be
set lower in some instances to show weak signals. The base level applies to
both positive and negative contour series, although for the negative side it
is naturally used with negative sign. The user sets how many levels there should be in total; the subsequent levels
start from the base level and move away from zero. Normally this involves a
geometric series, with a constant multiplication factor applied to a value to
generate the next in the series. This factor is set in the "Level multiplier",
although some of the commonly used values are quickly set via the adjacent
buttons. Under a few special circumstances it is helpful to  have a constant
difference  between levels, in which case "Add levels" may be used instead of
"Multiply levels".

**Caveats & Tips**

Often it is useful to initially setup contours using an "Auto" series, but
then manually remove some of the levels. For example having all the positive
levels but only the first negative level may be helpful to show where peaks
are truncated.

Note this system sets the levels that would be used to make any contour files
(an optional way of working, especially for 4D spectra etc.). However,
once contour files are made then this system will not affect the levels
within the files.

.. _Spectra: EditSpectrumPopup.html



Main Panel
==========

Spectrum
~~~~~~~~


|pulldown| ***None***: The spectrum for which you are setting the contour levels

|button| **Spectrum Properties**: Open the edit spectrum table to view and change other properties associated with the selected spectrum

Global scale
~~~~~~~~~~~~


|float| **10000.0**: The value by which all contour levels in all spectra are multiplied; to give the actual contour level in terms of the stored spectrum data

|button| **/2**: Divide the global scaling factor by two; moving all contour for all spectra levels closer to zero

|button| ***2**: Multiple the global scaling factor by two; moving all contour for all spectra levels away from zero

|button| **10^5**: Set the global contour scale for all spectra to the default of 100,000

|ramp| Click to decrease "-" or increase "+" the global contour scale by small amounts

Auto contour levels
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


|float| **Base level**: The first contour level (closest to zero) for an automated series of levels: the start of a geometric or arithmetic series defining levels

|button| **/2**: Lower the base contour level so that it is half of the previous value; moving the series of contour levels closer to zero

|button| ***2**: Raise the base contour level so that it is double the previous value; moving the series of contour levels further from zero

|ramp| Click to decrease "-" or increase "+" the base contour level by small amounts

|int| **Number of levels**: The number of contour levels to make in the automated series

|button| **-1**: Decrease the number of contour levels in the series by one

|button| **+1**: Increase the number of contour levels in the series by one

|button| **5**: Set the number of contour levels in the series to 5

|button| **10**: Set the number of contour levels in the series to 10

|button| **15**: Set the number of contour levels in the series to 15

|button| **20**: Set the number of contour levels in the series to 20

|float| **Level multiplier**: The multiplication factor (or increment if adding levels) to repetitively apply to the base level to generate the series of levels

|button| **1.2**: Set the automated series multiplication factor or increment to 1.200000

|button| **1.3**: Set the automated series multiplication factor or increment to 1.300000

|button| **1.4**: Set the automated series multiplication factor or increment to 1.400000

|button| **1.5**: Set the automated series multiplication factor or increment to 1.500000

|button| **1.6**: Set the automated series multiplication factor or increment to 1.600000

|button| **1.7**: Set the automated series multiplication factor or increment to 1.700000


|check| **Positive**: Toggles whether positive contour levels from the automated series will be used. Overrides any manual settings

|check| **Negative**: Toggles whether negative contour levels from the automated series will be used. Overrides any manual settings


|radio| **Multiply levels**: Set the contour level generation to use a geometric series, starting from the base level and using the specified factor

|radio| **Add levels**: Set the contour level generation to use an arithmetic series, starting from the base level and using the specified increment

Positive levels
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


|float| **FloatEntry**: The positive contour levels that will be used for the spectrum; filled in by the automation or set/modified manually

Negative levels
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


|float| **FloatEntry**: The negative contour levels that will be used for the spectrum; filled in by the automation or set/modified manually

|button| **Apply Auto Levels**: Set the spectrum contour levels, updating the display, to the automated series, ignoring any manual edits.

|button| **Apply Manual Edits**: Set the spectrum contour levels, updating the display, to the values displayed in the level entry fields

|button| **Clone**: Clone popup window

|button| **Help**: Show popup help document

|button| **Close**: Close popup

